[MUSIC]
>> Alexis Abril: For those that are just
joining us, we had a little transition,
my name's Alexis Abril.
We're gonna talk a little bit about
fundamental constructs in
the language in JavaScript.
Everybody's favorite part, data types,
what kind of keywords we're going to use,
what they mean.
We're gonna go through a little bit of
the groundwork as we start to build up
our knowledge of the language.
So first off we have our basic data types.
You can think of these as
the chemistry of JavaScript.
These are divided into two categories,
we have our primitive and object,
or composite data types.
Every language is gonna
have this kind of set up.
JavaScript is a little
unique in a few areas.
One, everybody is pretty much familiar
with a string, what that refers to.
In JavaScript we have undefined, and null.
This is kinda nice, but they are somewhat
confused, and mixed up from time to time,
especially if you'er using something
double equals null or undefined,
a lot of that will trip people up.
Undefined is actually gonna refer to a
pointer that points, that hasn't been set.
It's, by the literal definition
has not been defined yet,
we have not set this variable,
var foo;, this will be undefined.
Or if you're trying to use any kind
of variable in memory that
just hasn't been set yet.
Null is actually referring
to the null pointer.
I like to think of it as,
if you come across null in
a piece of code, it's by intent.
Something has manually
set this to be null,
versus undefined which hasn't been
declared, maybe it's a mistake.
Null is typically that
0x0 in any kind of stack.
Booleans and strings,
we're pretty much familiar with those.
Numbers in JavaScript,
we have numbers as opposed to
like a statically typed integer or
floating point, or big ints.
Numbers are,
in this case it's gonna be an integer,
but typically referred to as floats.
And then we have our composite types,
objects which is our hash.
It's our key value pairs.
We're gonna get deeper into
what objects can really be.
We have arrays, which is just a slightly
more advanced object construct,
we're gonna show a little bit
what that looks like in memory.
Dates, datetimes, everybody has
a date construct of some point.
Regular expressions, which I'm sure
everybody's favorite for using or
solving problems, or adding problems
depending on how you look at it.
And functions, functions are kinda unique
as we're talking about earlier functions,
our first class in JavaScript, we had
the literal definition of what that means.
We're really gonna get to
experiment with how powerful and
how expansive functions can be,
do we have questions?
Yes, go for it.
>> Speaker 2: What about NaN and
also the ES6 symbols?
>> Alexis Abril: Not a number,
we're not gonna talk
about any ES6 symbols.
I'm assuming you're talking about
things like bracket syntax and
those types of operands.
>> Speaker 2: Symbol's actually a-
>> Speaker 3: No, we're sticking
to the well supported image.
>> Alexis Abril: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Symbols isn’t in most
browsers yet, a year from now.
>> Alexis Abril: That's true, that's true,
most of what we're gonna cover is
kind of just the cross browser,
the most modern acceptance of a standard.
If that's a way to phrase that,
something that's applicable across all
environments.
>> Speaker 3: And
then not a number is a number,
just returns false, returns true when
you put it through is not a number,
the function is not a number.
[CROSSTALK]
>> Alexis Abril: For the mic,
the question was,
what about the not a number type?
It is a number was the response for
the people at home.
>> Speaker 4: And if you do interject,
can you speak loudly?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, I'll try to, thanks.
>> Alexis Abril: Cool,
any other questions, good so far?
Right on, so these are our basic types,
these are basic constructs.
So if you're thinking of
this as the chemistry,
maybe we have a little bit more of like
the physics of what makes things possible,
what brings these constructs together.
Those are our operators, we are not
gonna go through every reserved word
in the language, but we're gonna
touch a few of the big ones here.
var, this is how we declare variables,
remember JavaScript is
a weakly typed language.
So we don't care necessarily about the
type on the left side instead of saying
int foo.
We care about the value
it's being assigned to.
So here we're just declaring a pointer,
just undefined.
new, this is how we're
gonna create new objects,
based on some kind of
constructing function.
In this case maybe Foo is a constructor.
If we really wanna invoke this
it'd be new Foo open close.
So Foo and
then the calling of the Foo function.
Assignment, this is, we're talking
about the equals operator, we're taking
a pointer and actually assigning
an address to that variable in memory.
So we're gonna tell, in this case, we have
some objects, some hash representation
in our memory stack, and we're gonna
point to the foo its own address.
This is weird, when I'm saying addresses,
we actually have a visual
here in a couple slides.
We're gonna take foo's pointer and
point it to this object somewhere else in
memory.
>> Alexis Abril: Same thing if you
have foo.bar.
foo.bar is its own place in memory, and
we're gonna point it to some new,
to some other reference which is valid.
delete, delete is a special key word.
An easy way to describe this from a high
level is it does exactly what it sounds.
What it really does, the delete,
the deleting of a pointer or
a reference in this case,
is really just an observance of behavior.
It's not actually what's,
there's no real deleting necessarily
going on behind the scenes.
And we'll show what that
means here in a second too.
We have our member assignments.
If you're using the dots or
if you've seen the bracket syntax.
How many people have never seen
this bracket syntax before?
We have a bracket and
then a string within that.
Is everyone familiar with that?
These are actually doing the same
exact thing, but this is a really,
really nice feature.
We're all probably familiar with
seeing this in array notation.
You can do this in object
notation as well, to look for
any property that is on a given object.
And then we have our call,
call is this first line here,
this open closed paren whenever
you're invoking a function.
.call is just invoking a function
that's a member of another object.
We're gonna get into why that
distinction is important as well.
And then we have our comparison operators,
==, ===, greater than,
not equals to, all kinds of
different comparison operators.
Double and triple are a very,
very important distinction.
Many of us have probably at
least heard along the grapevine,
we shouldn't use ==,
we should always use ===.
One's faster than the other, but
we're not really sure why that is.
We're gonna show you why exactly that is,
and what kind of performance impact
something as simple as using one
comparison operator or the other
will have on your applications, so.
>> Speaker 3: I'd like to
interject two things.
You should be interjecting on me too.
You don't have to use the parentheses
with the new operator.
They're optional and then delete,
just to kind of rephrase a little bit,
it deletes a property and
we'll will see it in a second.
It doesn't actually delete the data.
So if there's a foo bar
equals some big object,
it doesn't actually delete the object.
It deletes a reference to the object, and
we'll see what that means in a minute.
>> Alexis Abril: Yes.